 China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi met U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on Friday on the sidelines of a meeting of foreign ministers of the G20 top economies in the German city of Bonn,  the official Xinhua news agency said.  
The pair met to exchange views on two-way ties and issues of mutual concern, Xinhua added in a brief report that gave no other details.
In a phone call with Chinese leader Xi Jinping last week, U.S. President Donald Trump changed tack and agreed to honor the "one China" policy, a major diplomatic boost for Beijing, which brooks no criticism of its claim to self-ruled Taiwan.
It was the first call between the leaders since Trump took office four weeks ago.
However, several areas of disagreement between the two countries, such as currency, trade, the South China Sea and North Korea, were not mentioned in public statements on the telephone conversation.
 (Reporting by Philip Wen; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
KUALA LUMPUR Malaysian police said on Friday it will not release the body of the estranged half-brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un until it receives DNA samples from his next-of-kin.
SEHWAN SHARIF, Pakistan Pakistani security forces killed dozens of suspected militants on Friday, a day after Islamic State claimed a suicide bombing that killed more than 80 worshippers at a Sufi shrine in the latest of a series of attacks across the country.
JERUSALEM Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Friday he would shelve his additional role as communication minister after police questioned him over allegations he negotiated a deal for good press coverage with a newspaper owner.
Reuters is the news and media division of 
. Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Learn more about Thomson Reuters products:
 All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. 
 of exchanges and delays.
