 U.S. President Donald Trump said on Friday he is considering four people to serve as his top aide on security, including acting national security adviser Keith Kellogg.
Kellogg, a retired general who was chief of staff of the White House National Security Council, stepped into the role after Michael Flynn resigned on Monday amid controversy over his contacts with Russia.
Trump had offered the job to retired Vice Admiral Robert Harward, who turned it down on Thursday.
Trump said in a post on Twitter he was still weighing other potential candidates for the White House job.
"General Keith Kellogg, who I have known for a long time, is very much in play for NSA - as are three others," Trump said. He gave no other details about any of the contenders. 
According to two sources familiar with Harward's decision,  the senior executive at Lockheed Martin declined the offer in part because he wanted to bring in his own team.
Trump has said that Flynn's deputy, K.T. McFarland, could stay. 
 (Reporting by Susan Heavey; Editing by Frances Kerry)
WASHINGTON U.S. President Donald Trump is poised to tap a Republican media relations firm owner to oversee his White House communications, according to media reports on Friday.
WASHINGTON The U.S. Supreme Court will decide three cases in coming months that could help or hinder President Donald Trump's efforts to ramp up border security and accelerate deportations of those in the country illegally.
WASHINGTON/SALT LAKE CITY, Utah When Republican Congressman Jason Chaffetz of Utah introduced legislation last month to transfer about 3 million acres of federally-held public land to state control, he was bombarded by thousands of angry phone calls, letters and social media posts urging him to back off.
Reuters is the news and media division of 
. Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Learn more about Thomson Reuters products:
 All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. 
 of exchanges and delays.
