SECURITY
Trump tweets that he is considering four people, including retired General Keith Kellogg, to serve as national security adviser after the departure of Michael Flynn.
Vice President Mike Pence will speak at the Munich Security Conference on Saturday, seeking to soothe allies unnerved by Trump's unorthodox statements on Russia and NATO while stressing U.S. commitment to Europe.
SYRIA    
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, trying to reassure allies that Washington is not tilting toward Moscow over the Syrian conflict, tells them the United States backs U.N. efforts for a political solution to the war, officials say.
AGENDA
After nearly a month in power, Trump has yet to unveil major legislation or to publicly endorse bills from others, getting Republicans off to a slow start on the sweeping reforms they promised on the campaign trail.    
RUSSIA
The Kremlin says it is not disappointed by how U.S.-Russia ties are developing under Trump and that it will only be possible to assess the outlook for relations once the leaders of both countries meet.
IMMIGRATION
The Supreme Court will decide three cases in the coming months that could help or hinder Trump's efforts to ramp up border security and accelerate deportations.    
CABINET
The Senate is expected to approve Trump's pick to run the Environmental Protection Agency on Friday, despite the objections of Democrats and green groups worried he will gut the agency, as the administration readies executive orders to ease regulation on drillers and miners.
MEDIA
Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull says Trump is wasting his time deriding the media over coverage of his administration.
 (Compiled by Bill Trott; Editing by Bernadette Baum)
WASHINGTON The U.S. Supreme Court will decide three cases in coming months that could help or hinder President Donald Trump's efforts to ramp up border security and accelerate deportations of those in the country illegally.
WASHINGTON/SALT LAKE CITY, Utah When Republican Congressman Jason Chaffetz of Utah introduced legislation last month to transfer about 3 million acres of federally-held public land to state control, he was bombarded by thousands of angry phone calls, letters and social media posts urging him to back off.
WASHINGTON The U.S. Senate is expected to approve President Donald Trump's pick to run the Environmental Protection Agency on Friday over the objections of Democrats and green groups worried he will gut the agency, as the administration readies executive orders to ease regulation on drillers and miners.
Reuters is the news and media division of 
. Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Learn more about Thomson Reuters products:
 All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. 
 of exchanges and delays.
